1.
Q.: In directed imagery tasks participants listen to a particular scenario and are instructed to picture the situation, the people, and the events as clearly and as vividly as they can. A researcher could ask participants how realistic they found such scenarios in order to check
A.: the external validity of the task

2.
Q.: Strata are
A.: distinct subsets in the population defined by a stratification variable
(Correct! Strata refer to specified subsets in which sampling is done)

3.
Q.: Opinion polls attempt to measure public opinion. Poll results can accurately reflect the attitudes in the population if
A.: the poll is based on probability sampling
(Correct, probability sampling is the way to get the most representative sample of the population.)

4.
Q.: Systematic sampling may be used instead of simple random sampling if
A.: the list of elements is ordered randomly
(Correct, in this way you still have a random sample, but the randomization is done before you select the participants.)

5.
Q.: The loss in precision is usually far outweighed by the reduced cost. This applies to
A.: cluster sampling
(Correct! With cluster sampling you specify clusters in which you randomly select participants, thereby reducing costs for example because you do not have to visit one person per city.)

6.
Q.: A researcher approaches the first visitor entering a mall and asks if he or she is willing to participate in a study on aging and depression. He approaches the next visitor, followed by the next, and so on. This is
A.: convenience sampling
(Yes! Potential respondents are selected simply based on their availability. There is no selection based on specific characteristics or a systematic procedure.)

7.
Q.: As the size of a random sample increases, the amount of sampling error
A.: decreases
(Indeed! The larger the sample, the better it usually reflects the population, and therefore the smaller the sampling error.)

8.
Q.: Using the same sample frame, a random sample of 500 voters were interviewed by telephone and a second random sample of 500 voters answered the same set of questions by filling out a web survey. A systematic difference in polls results can be due to
A.: differences in non-sampling error between the two samples
(Correct! Since the random samples are likely to be similar reflections of the population, it is most likely that the systematic difference is due to differences in non-sampling error, such as a difference in non-response.)

9.
Q.: To decide the optimal sample size, one needs to consider
A.: the variability in the population and the margin of error that one is willing to accept
(Correct! If you want a small margin of error, your sample size needs to be larger than for a larger margin of error. In addition, variability is important to take into account.)